Blog Content
Reebok Instapump Fury 95 Shoes ($170 at the time of publication)I’ve been obsessed with these ever since I learned about them as an intern for Reebok’s archive back in college—they’re unlike any other sneaker I’ve seen, and I love how futuristic they look. Believe it or not, they were actually released as a running shoe; the pump was designed to help the shoe conform more tightly around the foot, and even though they look clunky, a proprietary material in the sole keeps them super lightweight.I’ve had two pairs for about 4 years now. I break them out for special occasions, when I want to have a really bold shoe to boost my confidence. They’re a great conversation starter.—Phillip Zminda, editorial assistantOnitsuka Tiger Mexico 66 ($100 at the time of publication)The Mexico 66 by Onitsuka Tiger is my go-to pair of sneakers. My favorite thing about them is the vintage look of the swooping stripes and thin leather. I discovered this sneaker as a teenager while digging around in my mom’s closet. She had an old canvas pair with red stripes, and I immediately pilfered them. I wore that pair into the ground and have had a variety of Mexico 66s in my closet ever since. I’ve found these sneakers to be quite durable. Each pair lasts around two years in the rain, shine, and grime of the city streets. Plus, they’re extremely comfortable from the get-go: no breaking-in, no blisters, no discomfort.—Stuart Faith, analystNike Women’s Air Zoom Pegasus 37 Running Shoes (about $80 at the time of publication)When it comes to shopping for sneakers, I wade somewhere in the middle of the pack—I’m not athletic enough to need the most technologically advanced shoe built to survive a marathon. But I definitely need a sneaker that’s sporty enough to support my wonky knees, hips, and ankles during the occasional jog around the neighborhood.While I can’t fully appreciate the nitty-gritty specs of the Pegasus 37s—I’ll leave that to our experts—I can attest that these sneakers are lofty and supportive enough to keep me comfortable through my weekly runs, and they don’t leave my arches knotted with fatigue.—Brittney Ho, newsletter coordinatorReebok Club C 85 Vintage Women’s Shoes ($85 at the time of publication)When it comes to sneakers, I’m not exactly the best at taking care of them. My shoes have been spilled on, muddied, and scuffed too many times to count. They’ve taken me through long-distance treks, long runs through dirt and rain, and relentless puppy-gnawing.Despite it all, my Reebok Club C 85 Vintage sneakers are still in good enough shape to wear every day. The off-white color allows for easy cleaning and helps disguise daily wear and tear (as well as chew marks from my puppy). They look sleek but are comfortable on my high arches, which is a hard find in an everyday sneaker.—Wirecutter’s Bella SayeghChuck Taylor All Star Classic ($60 at the time of publication)I’ve been wearing Converse since middle school, and I actually just tossed my favorite pair from high school because they finally fell apart 10 years later. I don’t like the feeling of my feet moving around in my shoes, but Converse always feel like a pair of socks. They also stretch to fit perfectly. I wear them just about everywhere. They’re not waterproof, and they don’t have any grip to them. (I’ve worn them on hikes, and that was dangerous.) Other than that I can wear them for hours without discomfort. Also, they’re great for weight lifting!—Jasmine Khoury, software engineerReebok Classic Leather Shoes ($60 at the time of publication)This white leather pair with a gum outsole has held up incredibly well through near-daily wear for about four years now. I love the slight lift of the outsole, as it offers a chunkier silhouette than a lot of white sneakers on the market without being heavy. I like to pair them with calf-high ring socks to lean into the 80s vibe, but they truly go with everything.—Phillip Zminda, editorial assistantEcco Biom 2.1 Men’s Low Tex ($150 at the time of publication)I had been wearing sneakers that favored a semi-retro look over comfort, and reader, my feet were starting to hurt something fierce. I stumbled sore-footed into an Ecco store at the mall, and these Biom walking shoes initially jumped out at me because of their fun coloration (black, morel, and moon rock). I tried them in my size and couldn’t believe how comfy and supportive they were; I immediately trotted them out for a hike around Torrey Pines State Reserve and didn’t get a single blister. They were pricier than what I’m used to spending on shoes, but the quality has been well worth the investment.—Lee Neikirk, senior staff writerVibram V-Run Retro Women’s ($130 at the time of publication)I first learned about barefoot running when reading Born to Run by Christopher McDougall. The book romanticizes minimalist footwear as the solution for running, similar to how Nike advertises Jordans as the magic behind winning all-star dunk contests. I had to try them.After hours of research, I added them to my Christmas wish list. My body slowly acclimated to them, and I fell in love.It’s the only shoe I can run in comfortably. Over the past 10 years I’ve worn them for half marathons and obstacle course races. As long as Vibram keeps making them, I’ll keep running in them.—Bianca Quintana, marketing managerVessi Men’s Everyday Classic ($135 at the time of publication)I’ve gotten a lot of compliments on these. They’re fairly breathable and great for walking around the city or for a night out. They’re also waterproof, so you can wear them in the rain without worry.I found out about Vessi from YouTuber Philip DeFranco. He was raving about them for a few months (he also did a paid sponsorship with them, but I trust his word). I’m glad I decided to buy them; they reminded me that my feet deserve to feel comfortable all the time. They get a constant beating from all the running (and running around) I do.—Eric Frank, project managerDr. Scholl’s Everyday Platform Sneaker (from $50 at the time of publication)After years of heeled sandals in the summertime that gave me a small height boost but destroyed my feet after a long day, I finally purchased my first pair of white sneakers. This pair was the best purchase I made all summer. They go with practically every outfit, provide excellent arch support that keeps me on my feet all day long, and they give me a baby height boost with a 1.75 inch platform. I’m officially a white sneaker convert!—Mackenzie Greene, SEO content strategistNike Men’s Roshe Run (price varies)Because I wear size 15 shoes, I can’t just walk into a store and compare options, so I usually have to settle on sneakers that don’t hurt my feet. That’s why my first pair of Nike’s Roshe Runs were such a pleasant surprise. I can’t remember the last time my feet felt so good in sneakers. They’re lightweight, completely breathable, and the plush foam sole is durable, supporting my feet exactly where I need it. My workout routine is light and focused on yoga and building strength; these sneakers are perfect. Fortunately for everyone else, they’re available in sizes smaller than 15.—Kenneth Allen, project managerNike Air Force 1 ’07 LX (not available online)My husband has gifted me several pairs of awesome shoes over the years, but these are by far the most funky. They’re UV-reactive, so every time I step out into the sun, I get a burst of bright colors. They’re like a mind-bending magic trick that are both comfy and a great conversation starter. Unfortunately, they’re not too easy to find (and be aware that you’ll spend a lot more if you want them new with the original box).—Rachel Cericola, senior staff writer This article was edited by Brittney Ho, Amy Koplin and Sofia Sokolove.